Release notes ydb cli 2 8 0 (#1050)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/changelog-cli.md

# {{ ydb-short-name }} CLI changelog

## Version 2.8.0 {#2-8-0}

Released on January 12, 2024. To update to version **2.8.0**, select the [Downloads](downloads/index.md#ydb-cli) section.

**Features:**

> * Added configuration management commands for the cluster `ydb admin config` and `ydb admin volatile-config`.

Reviewer: link to documentation?

Author: Translation of this documentation is not ready yet.

> 

Reviewer 2: For what you use empty lines?

> * Added the `generic` type of requests in the [ydb table query execute](reference/ydb-cli/table-query-execute.md) command, allowing to perform [DDL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_Definition_Language) and [DML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_Manipulation_Language) operations, with arbitrarily-sized results and with support for [MVCC](concepts/mvcc.md). The command uses an experimental API, compatibility is not guaranteed.

Reviewer: it's also better to move all these experimental features to the bottom of the feature list

* Added support for loading postgres-types by command [ydb import file csv|tsv|json](reference/ydb-cli/export_import/import-file.md). Only for row tables.

* Added support for directory load from an S3-compatible storage in the [ydb import s3](reference/ydb-cli/export_import/s3_import.md) command. Currently only available on Linux and Mac OS.

* Added support for outputting the result of executing commands [ydb table query execute](reference/ydb-cli/table-query-execute.md), [ydb yql](reference/ydb-cli/yql.md) and [ydb scripting yql](reference/ydb-cli/scripting-yql.md) in [parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/) format.

* In the `ydb table query explain` command, the `--collect-diagnostics` option has been added to collect query diagnostics and save it to a file. The command uses an experimental API, compatibility is not guaranteed.

> * In the [ydb workload](reference/ydb-cli/commands/workload/index.md) commands, the `--executer` option has been added, specifying the type of queries used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the [ydb workload](reference/ydb-cli/commands/workload/index.md) commands, the `--executer` option has been added, which allows to specify which type of queries to use.
```

> * Added column of median benchmark execution time in the statistics table in the command [ydb workload clickbench](reference/ydb-cli/workload-click-bench.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a column with median benchmark execution time in the statistics table of the [ydb workload clickbench](reference/ydb-cli/workload-click-bench.md) command.
```
